API keys: Add migration path for API and terraform to Docs (#64436)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/administration/api-keys/index.md

This topic shows you how to create an API key using the Grafana UI. You can also create an API key using the Grafana HTTP API. For more information about creating API keys via the API, refer to [Create API key via API]({{< relref "../../developers/http_api/create-api-tokens-for-org/#how-to-create-a-new-organization-and-an-api-token" >}}).

### Before you begin

> To follow these instructions, you need one of the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To follow these instructions, you need at least one of the following:
```

Author: it is true that you only need at least one

- Administrator permissions
- Editor permissions
- Service account writer

> - To ensure you have permission to create and edit API keys. For more information about permissions, refer to [Roles and permissions]({{< relref "../roles-and-permissions/#" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To ensure you have permission to create and edit API keys, follow the instructions in [Roles and permissions]({{< relref "../roles-and-permissions/#" >}}).
```

### Steps

> To create an API

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create an API, complete the following steps:
```

This topic shows you how to create an API key using the Grafana UI. You can also create an API key using the Grafana HTTP API. For more information about creating API keys via the API, refer to [Create API key via API]({{< relref "../../developers/http_api/create-api-tokens-for-org/#how-to-create-a-new-organization-and-an-api-token" >}}).

### Before you begin

To follow these instructions, you need:

Either

- Admin/Editor

Or

- API keys writer

> - Service account writer

Author: @chri2547 you have a better way of presenting this? 🤔

Reviewer 2: Is it API keys writer AND service account writer? Or just one of the two?

Author: it's actually just service account writer/creator

The service account endpoints generate a machine-user for authentication instead of using API keys. When you migrate an API key to a service account, a service account will be created with a service account token.

> **Note:** If you are using API keys for authentication, we recommend that you migrate your integration to the service account authentication method. The API key will continue to work. You can locate the API key in the [Grafana service account tokens]({{< relref "../service-accounts/#service-account-tokens" >}}) details.

This section shows you how to migrate your integration to use the new service account endpoints. You can migrate your API keys using:

- The Grafana user interface
- The Grafana API
- Terraform

### Migrate API keys to Grafana service accounts using the Grafana user interface

This section shows you how to migrate API keys to Grafana service accounts using the Grafana user interface. You can choose to migrate a single API key or all API keys. When you migrate all API keys, you can no longer create API keys and must use service accounts instead.

> #### Before you begin

Reviewer 2: @eleijonmarck If there are any prerequisites or special permissions a user must have in place, we can add them to this Before you begin section. Are there any such prereqs? If not, we can remove this section.

Author: il add them here

#### Steps

To migrate all API keys to service accounts, complete the following steps:

1. Sign in to Grafana, hover your cursor over **Configuration** (the gear icon), and click **API Keys**.
1. In the top of the page, find the section which says **Switch from API keys to service accounts**
1. Click **Migrate to service accounts now**.
1. A confirmation window will appear, asking to confirm the migration. Click **Yes, migrate now** if you are willing to continue.
1. Once migration is successful, you can choose to forever hide the API keys page. Click **Hide API keys page forever** if you want to do that.

To migrate a single API key to a service account, complete the following steps:

1. Sign in to Grafana, hover your cursor over **Configuration** (the gear icon), and click **API Keys**.
1. Find the API Key you want to migrate.
1. Click **Migrate to service account**.

### Migrate API keys to Grafana service accounts using the API

This section shows you how to migrate API keys to Grafana service accounts using the Grafana API.

> #### Before you begin

Reviewer 2: @eleijonmarck If there are any prerequisites or special permissions a user must have in place, we can add them to this Before you begin section. Are there any such prereqs? If not, we can remove this section.

Author: added permissions

To follow these instructions, you need:

- xxx
- xxx

#### Steps

Complete the following steps to migrate from API keys to service accounts using the API:

1. Call the `POST /api/serviceaccounts` endpoint and the `POST /api/serviceaccounts/<id>/tokens`.

   This action generates a service account token.

1. Store the ID and secret that the system returns to you.
1. Pass the token in the `Authrorization` header, prefixed with `Bearer`.

   This action authenticates API requests.

1. SATs used for authentication
1. Remove code that handles the old `/api/auth/keys` endpoint.
1. Track the [API keys](http://localhost:3000/org/apikeys) in use and migrate them to SATs.

### Migrate API keys to Grafana service accounts using Terraform

This section shows you how to migrate API keys to Grafana service accounts using Terraform.

> #### Before you begin

Reviewer 2: @eleijonmarck If there are any prerequisites or special permissions a user must have in place, we can add them to this Before you begin section. Are there any such prereqs? If not, we can remove this section.

Author: from the title of this section, it is self evident that he user needs and probably have the terraform configuration is looking for how to migrate from that. So i would say the prerequisites is not needed here.

Reviewer 2: Gotcha. Removing.

To follow these instructions, you need:

- xxx
- xxx

#### Steps

Complete the following steps to migrate from API keys to service accounts using Terraform:

1. Generate `grafana_service_account` and `grafana_service_account_token` resources.
1. When creating the service account, specify the desired scopes and expiration date.
1. Use the token returned from `grafana_service_account_token` to authenticate the API requests.

> 1. Remove references to the deprecated `grafana_api_key` resource.

Author: changed the wording of this

> 1. Track the [API keys](http://localhost:3000/org/apikeys) in use and migrate them to SATs.

Reviewer 2: @eleijonmarck will the user know what this means? What are SATs?

Author: removed this last section it does not make sense

For more information about permissions, refer to [Roles and permissions]({{< relref "../roles-and-permissions/#" >}}).

#### Steps

To migrate all API keys to service accounts, complete the following steps:

1. Sign in to Grafana, hover your cursor over **Configuration** (the gear icon), and click **API Keys**.
1. In the top of the page, find the section which says **Switch from API keys to service accounts**
1. Click **Migrate to service accounts now**.
1. A confirmation window will appear, asking to confirm the migration. Click **Yes, migrate now** if you are willing to continue.
1. Once migration is successful, you can choose to forever hide the API keys page. Click **Hide API keys page forever** if you want to do that.

To migrate a single API key to a service account, complete the following steps:

1. Sign in to Grafana, hover your cursor over **Configuration** (the gear icon), and click **API Keys**.
1. Find the API Key you want to migrate.
1. Click **Migrate to service account**.

### Migrate API keys to Grafana service accounts using the API

This section shows you how to migrate API keys to Grafana service accounts using the Grafana API.

#### Before you begin

> To follow these instructions, you need:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To follow these instructions, you need one of the following:
```

1. Click **Add**.

## Migrate API keys to Grafana service accounts

As an alternative to using API keys for authentication, you can use a service account-based authentication system. When compared to API keys, service accounts have limited scopes that provide more security than using API keys.

For more information about the benefits of service accounts, refer to [Grafana service account benefits]({{< relref "../service-accounts/#service-account-benefits" >}}).

The service account endpoints generate a machine user for authentication instead of using API keys. When you migrate an API key to a service account, a service account will be created with a service account token.

> **Note:** If you are using API keys for authentication, we recommend that you migrate your integration to the service account authentication method. The API key will continue to work. You can locate the API key in the [Grafana service account tokens]({{< relref "../service-accounts/#service-account-tokens" >}}) details.

> ## This section shows you how to migrate Grafana to using service accounts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Ways of migrating API keys to service accounts
```

1. Find the API Key you want to migrate.
1. Click **Migrate to service account**.

### Migrate API keys to Grafana service accounts using the API

This section shows you how to migrate API keys to Grafana service accounts using the Grafana API.

#### Before you begin

To follow these instructions, you need one of the following:

- Administrator permissions
- Editor permissions
- Service account writer

#### Steps

Complete the following steps to migrate from API keys to service accounts using the API:

1. Call the `POST /api/serviceaccounts` endpoint and the `POST /api/serviceaccounts/<id>/tokens`.

   This action generates a service account token.

1. Store the ID and secret that the system returns to you.
1. Pass the token in the `Authrorization` header, prefixed with `Bearer`.

   This action authenticates API requests.

1. SATs used for authentication
1. Remove code that handles the old `/api/auth/keys` endpoint.
1. Track the [API keys](http://localhost:3000/org/apikeys) in use and migrate them to SATs.

### Migrate API keys to Grafana service accounts using Terraform

This section shows you how to migrate API keys to Grafana service accounts using Terraform.

> #### Before you begin

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> To follow these instructions, you need at least one of the following:
> 
> - N/A

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

   - If you are unsure about how long an API key should be valid, we recommend that you choose a short duration, such as a few hours. This approach limits the risk of having API keys that are valid for a long time.
1. Click **Add**.

## Migrate API keys to Grafana service accounts

> As an alternative to using API keys for authentication, you can use a service account-based authentication system. When compared to API keys, service accounts have limited scopes which provides more security than using API keys. For more information about the benefits of service accounts, refer to [Grafana service account benefits]({{< relref "../service-accounts/#service-account-benefits" >}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an alternative to using API keys for authentication, you can use a service account-based authentication system. When compared to API keys, service accounts have limited scopes that provide more security than using API keys. 

For more information about the benefits of service accounts, refer to [Grafana service account benefits]({{< relref "../service-accounts/#service-account-benefits" >}}).
```

> The service account endpoints generate a machine-user for authentication instead of using API keys. When you migrate an API key to a service account, a service account will be created with a service account token.

Reviewer: I think machine-user should probably be machine user. For an example in another documentation source, see https://circleci.com/docs/github-integration/#controlling-access-via-a-machine-user

Author: changed to machine user

> **Note:** If you are using API keys for authentication, we recommend that you migrate your integration to the service account authentication method. The API key will continue to work. You can locate the API key in the [Grafana service account tokens]({{< relref "../service-accounts/#service-account-tokens" >}}) details.

> This section shows you how to migrate your integration to use the new service account endpoints. You can migrate your API keys using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section shows you how to migrate your integration to use the new service account endpoints. To migrate your API keys, use:
```

Reviewer: Use all of these? One or more of these? One of these?

Author: use all of these steps. i think maybe you are confused by the word use here? 

if we say "To migrate your API keys:" would this make more sense?

Author: this is really dependant on the customer. if they have API calls using API keys, or terraform using API keys they need to migrate through that section, does this make sense?

- The Grafana user interface
- The Grafana API
- Terraform

### Migrate API keys to Grafana service accounts using the Grafana user interface

This section shows you how to migrate API keys to Grafana service accounts using the Grafana user interface. You can choose to migrate a single API key or all API keys. When you migrate all API keys, you can no longer create API keys and must use service accounts instead.

#### Before you begin

> To follow these instructions, you need one of the following:

Reviewer: one or at least one?

- Administrator permissions
- Editor permissions
- Service account writer

For more information about permissions, refer to [Roles and permissions]({{< relref "../roles-and-permissions/#" >}}).

#### Steps

To migrate all API keys to service accounts, complete the following steps:

> 1. Sign in to Grafana, hover your cursor over **Configuration** (the gear icon), and click **API Keys**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Sign in to Grafana, point to **Configuration** (the gear icon), and click **API Keys**.
```

1. In the top of the page, find the section which says **Switch from API keys to service accounts**
1. Click **Migrate to service accounts now**.
1. A confirmation window will appear, asking to confirm the migration. Click **Yes, migrate now** if you are willing to continue.
1. Once migration is successful, you can choose to forever hide the API keys page. Click **Hide API keys page forever** if you want to do that.

To migrate a single API key to a service account, complete the following steps:

1. Sign in to Grafana.
1. Click **Administration** in the left-side menu and select **API Keys**.
1. Find the API Key you want to migrate.
1. Click **Migrate to service account**.

### Migrate API keys to Grafana service accounts using the API

This section shows you how to migrate API keys to Grafana service accounts using the Grafana API.

#### Before you begin

> To follow these instructions, you need one of the following:

Reviewer: one or at least one?

- Administrator permissions
- Editor permissions
- Service account writer

#### Steps

Complete the following steps to migrate from API keys to service accounts using the API:

1. Call the `POST /api/serviceaccounts` endpoint and the `POST /api/serviceaccounts/<id>/tokens`.

   This action generates a service account token.

1. Store the ID and secret that the system returns to you.
1. Pass the token in the `Authrorization` header, prefixed with `Bearer`.

   This action authenticates API requests.

1. SATs used for authentication
1. Remove code that handles the old `/api/auth/keys` endpoint.
1. Track the [API keys](http://localhost:3000/org/apikeys) in use and migrate them to SATs.

### Migrate API keys to Grafana service accounts using Terraform

This section shows you how to migrate API keys to Grafana service accounts using Terraform.

#### Before you begin

To follow these instructions, you need:

> - N/A

Reviewer: Is this truly Not Applicable? Or is it a placeholder for info to be added later?

Author: as long as you have access to your terraform configuration, anyone that has that (regardless of the permissions in Grafana)

The service account endpoints generate a machine-user for authentication instead of using API keys. When you migrate an API key to a service account, a service account will be created with a service account token.

> **Note:** If you are using API keys for authentication, we recommend that you migrate your integration to the service account authentication method. The API key will continue to work. You can locate the API key in the [Grafana service account tokens]({{< relref "../service-accounts/#service-account-tokens" >}}) details.

This section shows you how to migrate your integration to use the new service account endpoints. You can migrate your API keys using:

- The Grafana user interface
- The Grafana API
- Terraform

### Migrate API keys to Grafana service accounts using the Grafana user interface

This section shows you how to migrate API keys to Grafana service accounts using the Grafana user interface. You can choose to migrate a single API key or all API keys. When you migrate all API keys, you can no longer create API keys and must use service accounts instead.

#### Before you begin

> To follow these instructions, you need one of the following:

Reviewer 2: @eleijonmarck , how does this look? Want to make sure I'm representing your feedback accurately and then we can add to all before you begin sections.
